Transcript from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3iU4a1yWGn0

This one simple process helped me make
$1.2 million selling ebooks. And now AI
lets you automate everything. Developing
the idea, writing it, designing it, even
building the simple site that sells it
for you. I'm Brian Moran, founder of Sam
Cart, and I just spent the last 48 hours
diving into real sales data from over
20,000 ebook sellers. And what I
discovered will completely change how
you think about making money online. You
don't need to be a writer, designer, or
tech expert to crush it with ebooks. In
the next few minutes, I'll show you
exactly how to use AI to write, design,
and launch your ebook business on
complete autopilot, even if you've never
created anything before. Let's dive in.
Okay, so the first question I want to
answer is why ebooks? If you're someone
who's thinking about starting a business
online, why is ebooks such a popular
thing or why do so many people recommend
it? Again, I'm running Sam Carts. We
have over 100,000 people who have made
sales on our platform selling everything
from drop shipping basketballs from
China to ebooks, online courses,
coaching programs, services, consulting
agencies, literally every product under
the sun. And in my experience, selling
digital products, in particular, ebooks
is the easiest and by far the cheapest
to get started. On top of that, this is
a digital product that you can create
one time and sell it to millions of
people 24/7, 365 without you needing to
be at your computer to update it, change
it, ship it, like any of that stuff. You
can be a completely autopilot business
almost. Not obviously, you're going to
have to look at your business. It's not
like you're going to be able to go to
the beach and just retire. But there are
people who don't touch these types of
businesses for a long time and they
continue to make sales either because
they have organic social media content
like YouTube videos that just rack up
views over time and make sales or
they're running ads or whatever. Long
story short, you can make it once and
sell it as many times as you want. The
other thing is most people don't know
this or they they doubt it, but scaling
to six and seven figures per year in
sales with just an ebook is actually
possible. In fact, the first ebook that
I started selling is actually what ended
up funding my next business, which then
funded the creation of Sam Cart, which
is now a $300 million software company.
All of it started from an ebook, an
actual digital product that looked like
crap, but sold really well because it
followed the couple rules that I'll give
you for what it takes to have an ebook
that actually makes money, that people
want to buy, want to give you money in
My first Ebook
order to buy. But like everyone, I
struggled at first. In fact, it took me
almost 18 months to even make my first
dollar trying to sell this ebook that I
had for over a year, almost two years,
with nothing to show for it. My first
ebook was in the baseball niche. I had a
website called trainbaseball.com. Um, if
you can see right behind me, a bunch of
baseball stuff back on that shelf. That
was my job before I became, you know,
full-time entrepreneur. Wanted to be a
pro baseball player is a passion of
mine. So, I figured, let's start a
business in this niche and create
digital content where I can share what I
know about this sport with the world.
What ended up happening was no one
actually wanted the product that I was
selling. And what I thought the problem
was was the design of this book or the
design of my site. I thought I didn't
have enough traffic. I even tried ads,
wasted a couple hundred, didn't make any
sales. And all these things that I
thought were the problem were not
actually the problem with this product.
The real problem was that I didn't
identify one problem for one person.
Didn't have a good title. Didn't have a
single one-page like landing page or
website that actually convinces people
to buy, also known as a sales page. I
was breaking all of these fundamental
rules. And that's why this product
didn't sell. And so if I had to break up
everything into or create a list of
these must-have elements for your ebook,
or this really applies to almost any
product, but if we're just talking about
ebooks, these are the musthaves if you
want your ebook to actually make money.
And the first four are what I call the
rule of one. You have to have one
problem that your ebook is solving. The
5 Must-Haves
mistake that I made, my first ebook was
called the 10-step hitting system, and
it was about baseball and how to become
a better hitter. So it wasn't
identifying and fixing one problem. It
was trying to fix all of their hitting
problems in one ebook. So, it was more
of a glossery or encyclopedia. It was
too much for people to believe that I
could solve all their problems. What I
should have done is broke out one of the
chapters that was about how to hit the
curveball. This very specific thing that
a lot of kids struggle with. And the
book should have just been called How to
Hit a Curveball. And that book would
have sold. Knowing what I know now, that
would have made a thousand times the
income that the product that I made
would ended up making because it would
have been more specific. would have
solved one problem. The next step is you
have to write the book for one person.
My book was for any baseball player
ages, you know, four all the way up to
18. And that is a problem when you're
not specific about who this is for that
it will struggle to sell. If you're
writing a weight loss book, it can't be
for everyone. For stay-at-home moms,
dads working full-time, or parents with
young kids, or college guys. It can't be
all of these markets. You have to pick
one market. Again, my book should have
been called How to Hit a Curveball for 8
to 12year-olds. That immediately would
have gotten the attention of the
customer, which in this case was either
the parent or the coach, and made them
believe that this actually could solve
their problem because it was written for
them. The next step is you need to sell
it with one landing page. I call it a
sales page. We actually have a process
for this. I believe I made a YouTube
video about it, but we have tons of
training about how to create a sales
page. It's the simple step-by-step
process that follows the perfect sales
script to take a stranger who does not
know you or like you or trust you yet
and gets them to know, like, trust you
enough to give you their money. That is
a hard thing to do if you try to make it
up on your own. If you follow all of the
processes that are out there when it
comes to convincing people to buy and
you make one page that is dedicated only
to getting someone to buy this one
product solves one problem for one
person, you have a much higher
likelihood of making that sale. Number
four is have one sales channel. The
other big thing, everyone messes this up
and they create this product, they have
a website and they try to go get traffic
from SEO or now AI and YouTube, Tik Tok,
Instagram, Facebook, paid ads on every
different channel. You're spreading
yourself too thin these days. You have
to become a master of one platform in
order to succeed. So, if you want to try
a couple to see which one you like
creating content for the best, maybe
it's Instagram or X or LinkedIn or
YouTube or SEO or reaching out to
affiliate partners, whichever one you
gravitate towards the most. Laser focus
on that one. Study that one channel as
much as humanly possible. Perfect it.
Put out a ton of content. Learn from
what works. Tweak as you go. And become
a master at that one channel. That is
the only way to success. We actually
have hundreds, probably thousands at
this point of seven and eight figure
sellers, people making between a million
and 10 million a year that they get all
of their customers. They make all of
their money still even at that scale
from just one channel. So, you do not
need to have all of these different
channels going to make what your goals
are probably a little bit lower than a
million to 10 million a year. You're
most likely, if you're watching this,
hoping to make an extra couple grand a
Write With AI
month or maybe 10 grand a month. You
absolutely can do that with just one
channel, whether it's YouTube or SEO or
anywhere else. The fifth one is you have
to have a great title. This one people
mess up all the time and they try to
come up with really cute titles or, you
know, they try to put buzzwords into
their titles and they just confuse
people. Your title should back up what
the problem that you're solving is. I'll
show you how to do that in a minute when
I demo this whole thing. I'll actually
make one of these titles live. So, with
that being said, let's jump over to the
computer and I'll walk you through the
step-by-step process for actually
creating one of these an entire ebook
business from scratch. Okay, so let's go
through the entire process. The beauty
now with AI is all of these things you
can just tell AI to follow the rules I
just gave you and it will do it. So, I'm
going to start I'm going to use this
little custom GPT that I built that has
a lot of this already baked in, but I'll
walk you through what I've told it to do
um so you can do it on your own. So, I
want to create an ebook about hitting a
baseball better. And let's let it go do
its thing. Okay. So, you can see right
off the bat, I've already told it to
tell me to do these things, but it's
going to help me narrow down my niche.
So, it's going to say, "Look, here's a
bunch of the popular topics in the
baseball hitting niche. So, what do you
want your book to actually be about?"
So, I actually like this bat speed one.
I'm going to copy this and it's going to
give me a whole bunch of other cool
research that I programmed it to do.
Stuff that people are spending money on.
Uh subniches. This is a good one. So,
actually I'll say um I want my ebook to
be about increasing bat speed and it's
uh mainly for I'll say youth baseball
hitters 8 to 12. The next thing this
should do is take me through writing uh
picking a good title. So, it's going to
recap, say, "Here's the big problem, and
here's the big benefit that I'm going to
solve." So, it's already laser focusing
on one problem, one benefit. Um, and
it's going to give me these title ideas.
And so, you can get an idea for what a
great title is just by looking at this
list. Um, one thing that I like in
titles is using alliteration. So, this
bat speed blueprint. So, the two B's
that those are always like easier to
say, easier to remember. uh the youth
hitter secret to faster swings, the
seven speed 7day uh bat speed challenge,
uh how to swing faster without swinging
harder. These are all great title/
headline formulas. And what you notice
is these things are you are incapable of
not understanding what this book is
about. If I choose one of these titles,
if I call this book the bat speed
shortcut, which that's what I'm going to
go with. Oh, I like the title. The bat
speed shortcut. If that's my title, it
it is it's impossible to not know what
this book is about. It's about bat speed
and it's about an easier way to get bat
speed. If you're a baseball player or
coach or parent, that's something that
you're probably thinking about and you
like the idea of a shortcut. Like that's
the idea of a perfect title. Naming this
something, you know, cute or, you know,
using some buzzword or, you know,
acronym that people don't understand.
You got to remember like people don't
know what you know. You need to talk to
them like you know a stranger uh who
knows what you're talking about. So the
next thing is it's going to walk me
through actually creating the perfect
ebook. And so these are what we teach
people and all of the ebooks that I've
written and sold in the past. This is
kind of the formula that we follow is an
introduction where we kind of, you know,
give people the big why when they open
up that first page is just restating,
you know, the big problem that we're
going to solve, the goal, maybe telling
your story, then explaining the core
content. This is just the steps that
they're going to take that this is where
my knowledge comes out. These are the
steps that I would walk a kid through in
order um to get to those. Now,
obviously, AI made these up, so you
would put yours in here. Um, but for
this exercise, I'm just going to let the
AI make up what the content is.
Obviously, you don't want to sell, you
know, just content that AI generated. U,
then we might go through some case
studies, maybe give a bonus chapter that
actually helps us when we go to script
our website. So, there's actually
bonuses that they get, making it feel
like they're getting even more. And then
I always end with if I have a second
product, an upsell kind of final chapter
that teases the next product that I want
them to buy. So, it's going to walk me
through, you know, asking me what's my
personal experience. So, it wants to
give wants to put my knowledge in this.
It's what I programmed this to do. I'm
just going to tell it to just go ahead
and make up the content yourself for
now, just so we can go ahead and get
some content that we can write. So,
right now, AI is going to write the
entire book for me. I can now take this
and put my spin on it. Obviously that's
what you would do where this is where a
lot of people struggle is what do we do
next? What's the next step? How do we
take all of this text and turn it into a
really beautiful PDF and this can be
really difficult especially you know
tools like Canva are not really ideal
for doing this with dragging things
around and so we created a tool um that
is inside typeset soon to be inside Sam
Cart as well. We'll link to everything
down below um so you can check it out.
But let me go ahead and copy this entire
thing and I'll put it um into a Google
Design With AI
doc so we can go ahead and start
designing and I'll show you what the
next steps are. So here is my entire
ebook and I'm going to copy and paste
this in. Okay, so for this exercise I
just copied it all over into a Google
doc. I went up into uh file and then
said download a Microsoft Word document.
This is one of the easiest ways for the
tool that that we love and use and that
we built um this tool called Typeset.
What it lets us do is import from these
documents. Um so over on Typeset, which
you can go grab, it's super cheap. You
I'd literally just go under uh hit
create and I go over to document/ebook.
It's going to build up the AI engine
here where I can just tell it what I
want and it'll write the book from
scratch. I could have skipped the AI,
but I actually like chap GBT a little
bit better right now. But this upload
file, I can go over here and I can go
grab my ebook and just import it in. And
Typeset is going to bring all of that
text in and it's going to start
designing it for me. You can see right
off the bat, let me see if I can bring
this up, make it look a little better.
So, right off the bat, it has already
started to chunk out all of my pages for
me and start to design them. It's even
brought in the emojis. And so now within
a couple minutes I can go add pictures
and images and charts and all kinds of
really cool stuff um to make this look
really good. So let me do kid baseball
and I'll grab let's see I'll grab this
one right here. And so you can see I can
just take a few minutes and add a couple
pictures and graphs maybe a few charts
and just move things around over here on
the left hand side. and my ebook is
beautifully designed right here over on
the right side with typeset. What's
super cool is I can change these themes.
So, I can go and say, you know, let's
try um this theme. So, it kind of made
everything gray. Maybe my brand colors
are pink. Maybe they're black and yellow
and I like this font. You literally can
change click one button and the entire
look and feel of your ebook matches your
brand, your style, your logos, whatever
it is that you want. You can put page
numbers on these. Everything is super
super simple and I now have a finished
product that is ready to go. Uh, in
fact, this product was engineered so
that it also makes money by selling my
second product. Uh, what I can do right
here, cool thing with typet is you just
use the forward slash. It gives you all
of these different kind of widgets or,
you know, elements that you can add onto
your page. And one of them is this
button right here. So, I can say, you
know, hey, go to trainbaseball.com/,
you know, upgrade and it will go I can
just say click here now and it will give
me a little a cool little button right
there. I can just delete this line. And
now all of a sudden, you know, I have a
clickable button inside of my PDF. You
can embed videos in here. All kinds of
really cool stuff you can add to your
document. So, my ebook is now designed
for me almost on autopilot. Now that I'm
done, you just click on export. You can
export this right away uh just by going
into PDF portrait mode just like it
stands and click export. It will start
to download it. I can switch this into
images. So I can turn these into social
posts. I can go landscape mode and make
this a webinar slide or YouTube video.
You can literally take one asset instead
of just having an ebook and having to
start over from scratch to create
everything else. you can switch over to
other types of assets and repurpose all
that work you did to make that one ebook
and come up with marketing material for
social media ads, webinars, videos, all
kinds of really cool stuff. So, here is
my finished ebook, a perfect PDF. Looks
great. The content is fantastic.
Sell With AI
Perfectly good in order to start
selling. But now, what we need is we
need a website in order to sell this.
And we just need one single landing page
that follows the simple process that
will turn visitors into paying
customers. So if I go back to my custom
GPT, it's already ready for me to go. If
this was you, you could just say, "Now
write me a sales letter that follows,
you know, some of the really simple
processes out there are like problem
agitate, solve sales letters. There's a
formula called the 12step sales letter.
I have a 22step VSSL format that I that
I sometimes use. There's a whole bunch
of different ways. In the end, they're
all pretty much the same. So, I'm just
going to say yes, go ahead and write my
sales letter. And you can see right off
the bat, it is giving me the exact copy
that I'm going to paste onto my website
and use this to start to create my
website. Uh, the beauty of this too is
with Sam Cart, you can simply take all
of this and you can go create your
website. I can go and do exactly how I
created the ebook. It's the same exact
process except we use Sam Cart to do it
for this. So, if I go into Sam Cart, I'm
going to hit create new landing page.
I'm going to say baseball uh bat speed
ebook. Going to go ahead and click on
create page. And we have the same type
set technology that you can import a
document or just paste all of your text
in and then very easily make everything
look really pretty. And so what I'm
going to do for this one is I'm going to
actually use this digital products
template that we have and just click on
next. And I'm not going to add any other
um sections in here. You can if you
want, but my page right now using the
template, this is exactly what we want
our page to look like. Same basic
format. So, I can just go in piece by
piece and start right up at the top and
just say, "Okay, here's my main
headline. Let me go and change this
headline out. Here's the pre headline.
Let me change the pre headline. I can
delete this top section cuz we don't
need that. Uh, let's Here's the sub
headline. Can change this sub headline
here. Can go and replace this image. And
let's go look for kid playing baseball
and look for a really good photo of a
kid hitting a baseball. Might need to
reposition this one a little bit. And
there we go. I mean, you can see just
the top section of this page already
looks great, is engineered to convert
and has the the content, the actual copy
or text of this page is written by an
expert. I mean, chatbt knows the all the
things that you the best copywriters in
the world know, it knows. And so now,
instead of hiring a copywriter or
studying copywriting uh and persuasion
for years like most of us, you know, who
got started um pre2020 had to do. Um
this thing is engineered to convert and
is going to convert. You just swap
things in, you know, hit save on this
page, set up your product, and you are
good to go. So, I won't bore you with
watching me do every single step of
this, but let me go ahead and speed this
up. And I'm just going to kind of copy
and paste this stuff in, move things
around, make it look good, and show you
when it's done.
All right, I'm done editing this page. I
just clicked publish. Now, let's go see
the live page. And there it is. I now
have a single one-page website where
somebody goes, they can click on this
button and buy this product right here.
Uh looks like that image did not show,
but I'll show you that it's there.
Probably just have to hit publish again.
U there's picture of the actual ebook
itself. This page covers everything from
what they get to, you know, what what
objections they might have. makes them
picture that future world. Outlines all
the benefits of it. Tells my backstory.
Leads with the big benefit. All the
things that you need to do in order to
convince somebody to buy your digital
product. I'm now good to go. Had AI
write the actual page for me. Had Sam
Cart's AI designer design the actual
page. Click publish. And now I have a
one-page website where I can send all of
my traffic. The final step is that
traffic step. And this is where a lot of
Get Traffic With AI
people, you know, they think they want
to list their products on Etsy or Amazon
cuz those platforms are going to give
them traffic. That's a great place to
list your product, but in the end, you
have to have a place that you can call
home, a place that you own that you have
full control over, which is this website
right here that Sam car can create for
you. So, if you see, this is really the
outline of a the perfect ebook business.
This little mind map right here can
bring in five, six, seven figures per
year. It all stems from you need to pick
one target customer. You need to have a
product that solves one problem. You
need to have one page, right? Uh if I
could zoom correctly, one page that
convinces them to buy that product and
then pick one channel that you are going
to dominate that's going to send all of
your traffic to that page. If that is
Instagram, you just take the URL to this
page and you put it in your Instagram
bio and convince people to click it.
Same thing on X, LinkedIn, Facebook, and
YouTube. On YouTube, you should put the
link in every single YouTube video
description in your bio on YouTube. Just
make sure wherever you can add a link
that you are sending people to this one
page. That is the name of the game. And
then people can get access to it after
they visit this page and buy. Sam Cart
can send them a simple email where you
upload the PDF and it just sends it to
them. You can create a secure members
area with Sam Cart where you can have
videos and all kinds of stuff in there
and they can access it that way. It
really does not matter. As long as
people get access to this PDF that they
bought, they are going to be happy
campers. So, that is how you create an
ebook business in a matter of minutes. A
Popular FAQs
couple questions I want to answer that I
know a lot of you usually are wondering
about is how much traffic do I need to
get to that page in order to make a
sale. If you're selling an ebook, I
recommend a price somewhere between 7
and 27 bucks. I usually go on the higher
end, like $27. That way, you're making a
good amount of money every time somebody
buys. Priced in that range, you should
expect about a 10% conversion, which
means for every 10 visitors that you
get, you make one sale. Which means if
you can get a 100 visitors a day, which
is not all that hard, you can make $270
a day. The other question is, how do you
compare like listing your digital
product on Amazon or Etsy versus having
your own website and using a platform
like Sam Cart to do it? In my opinion,
you should always have your own website
on a platform, whether it's Sam Cart or
any other one. And the main reasons are
you don't have to pay all the fees. You
have infinite customization. You own
everything. You don't have any control
over how much money you make if you do
list it on Amazon or Etsy. Those are
great other channels to also list your
products, but you should have a home
where all of your social media traffic,
all of your paid media traffic, if
you're running ads or doing SEO, you
want a place for you to send all of that
traffic. If Etsy wants to send you free
customers, great. But if you want to
take control over your business and have
something that's reliable, that is going
to live on that you have control over
how much you grow it, you have to have a
place that you call your own on your own
website, on a platform that you're
paying for and that you control. The
other one is, should you start an ebook
or write one around a passion of yours
or a trending topic? So, look, trending
topics can be great. They can make a ton
of money really fast, but they
eventually die. I would rather have a
sustainable business around something
that I'm passionate about because your
content is going to be better. Your
ebook is going to be better if you write
it around something that you already
know and love to do. You're good at it.
If you just pick a trending topic like
AI and you have no idea what you're
doing when it comes to AI, your ebook is
going to suck. And you want customers to
read and go through your products and
love them because they will buy 50 times
more of your stuff. They will spend 50
times more money with you over the next
couple years if they like what you
actually sell them. Create something
around a topic you know nothing about.
Or you try to teach people how to start
a business and you've never started a
business or teach them how to raise kids
and you've never had kids. A thing like
that just because it's trending. It's
not going to last long term. You might
get lucky and make a splash of money
now, but it'll all be gone in the near
future. And go back to price again. That
range is about 7 to 27 bucks. If you're
just asking for me to pick a price for
you, I'd say go with 27 bucks. It
conveys value. It suggests to people
that look, this is better than what
you're going to find in the bookstore
where you're going to pay 10, $15, $20
per book because you are an expert
because you've kept this focused on one
specific problem, which that in and of
itself is more valuable to people. So,
if you like this video, let me know down
in the comments below. If you want
access to the AI bots that I demoed on
here to just make it easier, want to,
you know, try out Sam Cart, we have an
entire process like this really cool
bundle that gives you a whole bunch of
this stuff at a huge discount that you
can check out right down below this
video.